All right, guys.
In this video, we're going to take a look at lists and tables.
So let's create a new file and we're going to call it zero six, underscore lists, underscore tables,
dot HTML.
And let's add in our boilerplate here, closes that up lists and tables.
So we have a couple of different types of lists.
So we have unordered lists
and unordered lists.
They're not numbered, basically.
They're they have bullet points, which, of course, you can remove with CSS.
You can you can have different types of bullet points.
But let's go ahead and create an unordered list.
So we want to put a UL tag and then each item in the list should be wrapped in a list, item in line
tag.
So let's go ahead and just say item one.
And what I'll do is I'll hold down shift and option or shift in alt and just hit the down arrow so that
we can bring these down.
And let's change that to two, three and four and we'll save this control.
S And then let's open this with live server.
And there we go.
So that's what it's going to give us.
I'm actually going to zoom in a little bit on the HTML so you can see this better.
Should have probably done that a while ago.
And notice that the bullets are here.
And like I said, these can be removed through CSS.
We can also have different types of bullets.
This isn't something that I would recommend, but you can use a style tag to change CSS attributes and
there's something called a list style.
And we have Circle Square.
Let's see, let's change it to a square and save.
And now you can see that each bullet is a square.
We have disc.
Save that.
That's the default circle.
So that's kind of an unfilled circle.
And then we also have actually, I think that's it.
And then we have none.
All right.
And this is something that I would not recommend doing.
You want to you want to put all your styling in your CSS style sheet.
But I just wanted to give you an example of this.
So let's get rid of that.
So that's an unordered list.
At the same time, we have ordered lists,
and I'm going to give you another little trick here.
So first of all, it's an old tag.
And then we still use lies.
We still use list items, whether it's ordered or unordered.
Now with Emmet, let's say I want to have four list items.
I can actually do time so I could put an asterisk for and hit tab and it will actually give me four
list items.
So little tip there and we can fill these in.
We'll say item one.
Item two.
I am for and we'll save that.
And now notice that instead of bullets, we actually have numbers.
So it's a number list and then we can change the type as well.
So there's a type attribute.
So basically type one is the default.
If I save that, you'll see no change.
That's just numbers we can use.
Type uppercase A if I save that, it'll change it to uppercase letters.
If we use lowercase, a is the type, it'll be lowercase letters.
We can use uppercase I, which will actually do uppercase Roman numerals, lowercase I will do lowercase
roman numerals.
So just to let you know that you can add the type attribute order list is something that I almost never
use.
Unordered list is something you're going to use all the time because they're used for navigation menus,
whether it's a horizontal navigation nav bar or if it's a side menu or anything like that.
So we can also have nested lists.
So let's actually copy this.
So I'm going to just control C copy this ul here and control V will paste that in and let's say we want
to have a list within the list.
So inside this lie, this second one, let's get rid of that.
Actually, we'll keep that.
But next to it, I'm going to go on a new line and I'm going to put another UL inside here and let's
put an ally and we'll say nested item one, and then we'll do nested item two and let's save that.
And now you can see that these two items are nested and it automatically changes the the bullet point
here to a circle, changes it from a disk to a circle.
So lists are pretty simple.
Styling them is is a whole new level when you start to get into creating navigation bars and stuff like
that.
But we'll get into that later on when we start to deal with CSS.
All right.
So let's talk about tables.
So tables are used for tabular data.
Now, back in the day, back in, I don't know, eight, nine, ten years ago, people would actually
use tables to for website layout before we had proper CSS, before we had Flexbox and the grid system
and and frameworks and stuff like that.
People would actually would have like their sidebar and their main content area in their website be
a table which is absolutely horrible.
You never want to do anything like that.
You only want to use tables for tabular data if you have a, you know, a list of users or whatever
it may be, just some kind of data.
So to create a table, we want to put a table tag.
And in a table we have a head, a body, and we can also have a footer if we want.
I don't usually use footers, but for the head we're going to say t head and we want a table row and
inside the table row we want some columns.
But when it's when it's a heading, you want to use t h k for table head and let's do first name and
then we'll bring this down twice by holding control option or control alt and hit the down arrow twice.
And we'll change this to let's say last name and let's do email.
Now, if I save this, you'll see that these are our headings.
So these are the headings and then we want the data underneath.
So the data is going to go in the RT body.
So we have our table, our table head and then our table body which will also have table rows, but
instead of t h we want to use t d t h is only for the heading.
And then we'll say Let's do John, bring down two more.
So doh would be the last name and email
if I save that.
And there we go.
So we have first name, we have one entry here or one row with which is John Doe and then his email.
So I'm going to go ahead and copy this whole table row and let's do two more.
Probably want to fix this up a little bit.
And we'll go ahead and change up some of this data.
So we'll say Kate Smith.
Kate.
Jeff.
All right, so we'll save that.
And now we have three rows in our table.
So pretty simple.
If we want to, we could change the width.
Now I would suggest doing this stuff through CSIS, but just to show you, we can we can use the style
attribute and we can say with, I don't know, 600 pixels.
And now it's wider.
And it just it's more readable like that.
But again, I would suggest not using the style attribute.
That's not good practice, but we haven't gotten into CSS yet.
So in the next video, we're going to take a look at forms and input fields.